---
ID: 1483
post_title: 'Top Criminal Attorneys &#8211; Michigan Ex-Cons Find Difficulty in Landing a Job'
author: Charles Kronzek
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://acddev.staging.wpengine.com/top-criminal-attorneys-michigan-ex-cons-find-difficulty-in-landing-a-job.html
published: true
post_date: 2011-05-24 18:19:31
---
<span style="color: #000000;">One does not need to be a top criminal lawyer in Michigan to know that the state's economy has been on a downward spiral for the last few years. Finding a job for educated, law-abiding citizens is incredibly difficult, and many Michigan residents have found themselves going into debt or foreclosure while trying to find work. However, there is a group of people who have an even harder time landing a job in Michigan: ex-convicts.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">An example of such a person is 43 year-old Michael Marsh, who was released from prison in 2009 after serving ten years for second-degree criminal sexual conduct with a child under the age of 13. It did not take Marsh long to discover that the consequences of criminal convictions last much longer than one's jail or prison sentence. Over the course of 18 months, Marsh filled out over 200 job applications but was only called for four interviews, each of which ended in disappointment after employers learned that he was an ex-felon. Disheartened, Marsh explained "I went to prison, did my time, and according to laws and churches, everyone should be forgiven and have a second chance. Under this crime, I don't get a second chance."</span>
<h2>Not An Uncommon Occurrence</h2>
<span style="color: #000000;">According to research conducted at Michigan State University, Marsh's difficulty landing a job is not uncommon. The study reported that 30 percent of employers absolutely refuse to hire ex-felons, and that persons convicted of sexual crimes have the most difficult road to finding employment. Besides being restricted from employment in certain places (i.e. schools), paroled sex crime convicts are largely turned away due to the social stigma associated with their crimes. When deciding whether or not to give a released felon a job, employers look at many things, such as the duration since the offense and the liabilities the business may face as a result. The study pointed out that employers are far more likely to hire ex-convicts who have showed signs of rehabilitation.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Having outside assistance after release from incarceration is crucial to reintegrating ex-cons into society. Even though most employers would turn away an ex-convict applying for a job, some employers (namely non-profits) offer short-term employment, usually through the Michigan Prisoner ReEntry Initiative. This program provides tools that help paroled convicts reintegrate themselves into society, such as assistance with resumes and cover letters, access to a statewide job bank, and opportunities to build their skills.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Although there are many obstacles on an ex-convict's road to landing a job, about 44 percent of people who take advantage of assistance programs (such as the Michigan Prisoner ReEntry Initiative) find some way to make a steady income. As this number continues to grow, employers are encouraged to hire ex-felons through the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, which offers business owners 40 percent of a hired ex-convict’s salary if he or she is employed for at least one year. And if the tax incentives are not good enough for employers to consider hiring an ex-con, many business owners who have taken a chance on these individuals found themselves "impressed by their work ethic," turning them over at a far lower rate than other employees.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Michigan judges do not factor in future employment problems when deciding on an appropriate sentence for a convicted person. As <a href="http://acddev.staging.wpengine.com/trial-attorneys.html">top criminal trial attorneys i</a>n Michigan, it is difficult for The Kronzek Firm to turn a blind eye to this problem. Our justice system simply cannot be effective if we do not provide for the full rehabilitation of paroled offenders. In fact, those who do not receive assistance after release are the most likely to return to jail or prison, costing taxpayers even more money to keep them locked up. Instead, it is a much better idea to work with paroled convicts so that they may not only reintegrate themselves into society, but also move on with their lives as law-abiding citizens.</span>