---
ID: 6364
post_title: 'Devil&#8217;s Diciples Gang Members Convicted'
author: Charles Kronzek
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://acddev.staging.wpengine.com/6364.html
published: true
post_date: 2015-03-06 15:58:09
---
<h2>Detroit Motorcycle gang convicted on RICO and meth charges</h2>
In a Federal Courtroom in Downtown Detroit recently, six members of the Devil's Diciples Motorcycle Club (the misspelling is intentional, by the way), were convicted on RICO and meth charges, among other things.

According to the prosecution, the Devil's Diciples, (DDMC) are widely known for intimidation tactics, violence, drug use, illegal gambling and a number of other criminal activities. They were headquartered in Clinton Township, but apparently had chapters in several other states across the U.S.<!--more-->

According to testimony provided during the trial, and the years of investigation that preceded it, the gang was responsible for a number of crimes. These included attempted murder, kidnapping, robbery, extortion, assault, and methamphetamine production and sale. Court documents show that more than 60 firearms were seized during the course of the investigation. And a total of eight meth labs were broken down.

In addition, there were the <a title="Federal RICO Violations Attorneys – Michigan CCE Lawyers" href="http://acddev.staging.wpengine.com/federal-rico-violations-attorneys-michigan-cce-lawyers" target="_blank">racketeering charges (RICO)</a>. These were based on an investigation that took authorities years to complete.

Six bikers were convicted by the jury. As it turns out, those six were not people to be trifled with. Both of the gang's top leaders will face sentencing - 60-year-old Jeff "Fat Dog" Smith, who was the gang's president, and 50-year-old Paul "Pauli" Anthony Darrah who is the group's national vice president. Both men are accused of having shot a man who broke the gang's rules.

Smith was found to be in possession of a number of highly sensitive law enforcement documents. These documents included affidavits, indictments, and witness interviews. Authorities believe he was using these to identify federal informants. Smith is also believed to have assaulted another member's girlfriend because she disrespected him.

Also convicted was 64-year-old Vincent "Holiday" Witort, 56-year-old Cary Dale Vandiver, also known as "Gun Control" who is listed as the gang's National Warlord, 60-year-old Patrick McKeoun, a.k.a. "Magoo" and 38-year-old David "D" Drozdowski. The charges included engaging in a RICO conspiracy, drug trafficking, and felony firearm charges.

According to the prosecution, there are an additional 21 members and associates of the Devil's Diciples gang that have pled guilty to a variety of crimes as a result of the investigation that led to these convictions.